
=head1 NAME

PDL::Index - an index of PDL documentation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A meta document listing the documented PDL modules and
the PDL manual documents

=head1 PDL manuals

=over 4

=item *

L<Inline::Pdlpp> - Write PDL Subroutines inline with PDL::PP

=item *

L<PDL::API> - making ndarrays from Perl and C/XS code

=item *

L<PDL::BadValues> - Discussion of bad value support in PDL

=item *

L<PDL::Broadcasting> - Tutorial for PDL's Broadcasting feature

=item *

L<PDL::Bugs> - How to diagnose and report PDL problems

=item *

L<PDL::Course> - A journey through PDL's documentation, from beginner to advanced.

=item *

L<PDL::Dataflow> - description of the dataflow implementation and philosophy

=item *

L<PDL::Delta> - PDL changes between V1.0 and V2.0

=item *

L<PDL::FAQ> - Frequently asked questions about PDL

=item *

L<PDL::Graphics> - Introduction to the PDL::Graphics modules

=item *

L<PDL::IO> - An overview of the modules in the PDL::IO namespace.

=item *

L<PDL::Indexing> - Introduction to indexing and slicing ndarrays.

=item *

L<PDL::Internals> - description of some aspects of the current internals

=item *

L<PDL::MATLAB> - A guide for MATLAB users.

=item *

L<PDL::Modules> - A guide to PDL's module reference.

=item *

L<PDL::Objects> - Object-Orientation, what is it and how to exploit it

=item *

L<PDL::PP> - Generate PDL routines from concise descriptions

=item *

L<PDL::ParallelCPU> - Parallel processor multi-threading support in PDL

=item *

L<PDL::Philosophy> - Why did we write PDL?

=item *

L<PDL::QuickStart> - Quick introduction to PDL features.

=item *

L<PDL::Scilab> - A guide for Scilab users.

=item *

L<PDL::Tips> - Small tidbits of useful arcana. Programming tidbits and such.

=item *

L<PDL::Tutorials> - A guide to PDL's tutorial documentation.

